- The Application Context,
and more specifically The BeanFactory,
is one of the most important components
in the spring framework.
As we dig in deeper to the framework as a whole,
we need to fully understand the Application Context,
and the role that it plays
during run time of our applications.
The first thing we need to discuss
is the purpose of the Application Context.
The Application Context acts as the
heart of the Spring Application.
This is the central element that you deal with
from the Spring framework,
when developing an application.
As previously mentioned, your classes should seldom,
if ever have imports from the Spring framework
except in annotations.
However , the Application Context
and the entry point of your application is an exception.
The Application Context encapsulates the BeanFactory.
The BeanFactory, as we will discuss,
is the I-o-C container itself.
The Application Context encapsulates it
and provides a user access to the BeanFactory
under controlled situations.
As such, it provides the point
for metadata for bean creation.
We will talk a lot about bean configuration,
but no matter the mechanism you use to configure your beans,
the Application Context serves to take that configuration
and allow the framework to use it
to build the I-o-C container itself.
It also ensures that your beans
are created in appropriate order.
As we saw previously, this can be of concern
when a central object manages
all of the dependencies in an application.
It must be done in proper order
to ensure the dependencies are available
when needed for the construction of objects.
Spring handles that through mechanisms
within the BeanFactory and the Application Context.
As mentioned, the BeanFactory provides
the Inversion of Control Container.
This provides all the facilities for
injection of beans at startup and run time.
While most beans are singletons and injected at startup,
there are other types of beans they get handled differently.
However, all the injection is
handled by the BeanFactory.
Most of the developers interaction with Spring,
is actually configuring the I-o-C container.
We do use abstractions provided by Spring,
but they are just pre-configured facades
on top of repetitive processes for the most part.
Really, using Spring is more about configuration,
at least at its core.
The BeanFactory maintains a handle
to all singleton beans, in the application.
Now what this means is that beans of type singleton
will always be referenced in the BeanFactory.
Even if a class goes out of scope in the main runtime,
the BeanFactory will always have a handle.
This also means that the instance object
is injected everywhere it's used.
So you need to keep that in account,
when storing state in those objects.
Attributes for these classes
must be handled carefully.
Beans that aren't singletons are handled differently
and we'll talk about those later on.
Now multiple Application Contexts,
can bring a little more challenge to your application,
and needs to be addressed.
A Spring application can have
more than one Application Context.
It will always have at least one,
but in certain situations there can exist multiple.
Web containers, for instance always have
Multiple Application Contexts and play.
The parent context can interact with the child context,
but the other's not usually possible.
And this makes sense if you think about O-O-P in general,
because there is always a parent context
and the rest are children.
Much like a dependency graph for your business objects.
We aren't going to go into depth here on
Multiple Application Contexts however,
because most often it is the framework
that controls these cases.